README.md, before:

# Knockout Application

Knockout Application aims to be the glue linking every feature of your modern web application, like routing URL, session management, template rendering, and off course, data bindings.

It should avail existing libraries as much as possible and provide an easy and familiar API to its users.

It's currently in very early stages of development, but already works, and should become a great tool to build killer apps.

## Dependencies:

- Knockout 2.1 - https://github.com/stevesanderson/knockout
- WayJS 0.1 - https://github.com/haggen/wayjs
- jQuery 1.7 - https://github.com/jquery/jquery

## Usage:

In your HTML:

    <!doctype html>
    <html>
    <head>
      <meta charset="utf-8">
      <title>ko.app example</title>
    </head>
    <body>

    <div data-bind="app"></div>

    <script src="knockout.js"></script>
    <script src="jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="way.js"></script>

    <script src="../ko.app.js"></script>

    <script>
      ko.app(function() {
        this.map('#/hello/:name', function(context) {
          context.name = ko.observable(this.params.name);
          this.render('hello');
        });

        this.root = '#/hello/world';

        this.run();
      });
    </script>

    </body>
    </html>


In your template `/templates/hello.html`:

    <p>Hello, <span data-bind="text: name"></span></p>

Now open `index.html` in your browser. Try changing `world` to your name, it works!

You can see a working version of this example in the `example/` directory.

## API:

Note that `app` here will mean `this` inside your application's constructor.

### `app.before(pattern, filter)`:

Register a filter that will be executed before routes that match the `pattern`. The `filter` is a function that may return `false` to prevent the current route from being processed, define new observables in the `context` or redirect the user to another location.

The `pattern` may be a string or a regular expression. The `filter` receives one argument: the `context`.

### `app.map(pattern, action)`:

Register a new `action` that will be executed when `pattern` matches the current location.

The `route` must be a path starting with `#/`. The `action` receives the `context` as first and only argument.

### `app.render(template)`:

Define which template will be loaded and rendered. Currently, all templates must be in a `templates/` directory and use `.html` extension, but soon it will be customizable.

The templates are the views for your application. Each route may load one template. But inside the templates you're free to use all the features of Knockout, like rendering another templates.

The template rendered is bound to the `context`.

### `app.redirect(path)`:

Redirect the user to another location.

### `app.root = '#/'`:

Define a root route to redirect the user when the hash is empty.

### `app.run()`:

Setup your application.

## Wishlist:

- Session and cookie manager
- Querystring parameters
- Choose your own template engine
- Custom settings (like template directory)
- Error handling (?)

Commit message:

update docs with api and example changes

README.md, after:

# Knockout Application

Knockout Application aims to be the glue linking every feature of your modern web application, like routing URL, session management, template rendering, and off course, data bindings.

It should avail existing libraries as much as possible and provide an easy and familiar API to its users.

It's currently in very early stages of development, but already works, and should become a great tool to build killer apps.

## Dependencies:

- Knockout 2.1 - https://github.com/stevesanderson/knockout
- WayJS 0.1 - https://github.com/haggen/wayjs
- jQuery 1.7 - https://github.com/jquery/jquery
- Cookies 0.2 - https://github.com/scotthamper/cookies

## Usage:

In your HTML:

    <!doctype html>
    <html>
    <head>
      <meta charset="utf-8">
      <title>ko.app example</title>
    </head>
    <body>

    <div data-bind="app"></div>

    <script src="knockout.js"></script>
    <script src="jquery.js"></script>
    <script src="way.js"></script>

    <script src="../ko.app.js"></script>

    <script>
      ko.app(function() {
        this.map('#/hello/:name', function(context) {
          context.name = ko.observable(this.params.name);
          this.render('hello');
        });

        this.root = '#/hello/world';

        this.run();
      });
    </script>

    </body>
    </html>

In your template `/templates/hello.html`:

    <p>Hello, <span data-bind="text: name"></span></p>

Now open `index.html` in your browser. Try changing `world` to your name, it works!

You can see a working version of this example in the `example/` directory.

## API:

Note that inside your application's constructor you can access `app` by `this`.

### \#map

    map(string pattern, function(context) action)

Map new route to given action. Actions may return `true` to chain more routes that matches the current path. Also within the action `this` refers to the application.

### \#session

    session(string name[, string value])

Retrieve session variable when value is omitted, otherwise update it with given value. Also `value` may be `null` to delete given session variable.

### \#redirect

    redirect(string path)

Redirect user to given location.

### \#render

    render(string template)

Render given template and bind current context to it. Template files must be in `templates/` directory and must use `.html` extension.

### \#dispatch

    dispatch()

Match and dispatch an action based on current location.

### \#listen

    listen()

Listen to hash changes.

### \#run

    run()

Setup and initialize your application.

## Roadmap:

- <del>Session management</del>
- Custom settings (like template directory)
